<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Gendered Pain in Greek Tragedy</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page-style.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <h1>About</h1>
        <hr />
        <section>
            <h2>Which Greek Tragedies and Why</h2>
            <p> We are using four tragedies for our analysis: </p>
            <ul>
                <li>Libation Bearers</li>
                <li>Medea</li>
                <li>Philoctetes</li>
                <li>Women of Trachis</li>
            </ul>
            <p> The first two plays, Libation Bearers and Medea, were selected because they depict
                women in pain. Philoctetes and Women of Trachis depict men in pain. This way, we
                have enough data to make conclusions about women's and men's pain. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Our Methodology</h2>
            <h3>Creating the Corpus:</h3>
            <p>This project was originally derived from an adjacently related one, studying pain and
                gender in Greek tragedies. For that project, our group member, Vidya Surti, was
                awarded a UHC Research Fellowship to formulate her own 'Greek' tragedy adjacent play
                focusing on the gendered aspects of pain. During her preliminary research, she had
                already identified Greek tragedies that place a lot of focus on pain as a plot
                driver and an element that affects gendered perceptions of certain characters. We
                tried to divide the content of our corpus based on the type of pain being present.
                The tragedies we chose were Medea, Philoctetes, Women of Trachis, and Libation
                Bearers.</p>
            <p>We had four group members, so we were each tasked with one tragedy to mark up.</p>
            <h3>Pain Markup (Trojan vs. Normal)</h3>
            <p>Our group did not opt to use the standard notation for our markup, with the pain
                instance wrapped in pain start and end tags. Ex.&lt;pain&gt;Pain
                Instance&lt;/pain&gt; Instead, we opted to use Trojan markup, where we used an empty
                painStart element containing attributes and their values about the specific pain
                instance. After the painStart tag with the text of the pain instance, the painEnd
                tag would wrap the pain instance together. This painEnd tag would contain no
                attributes, unlike the painStart empty element. So, the painStart empty element
                would act as the start tag, and the painEnd empty element would act as the end tag.
                For each painEnd element, there must be a preceding painStart element. Furthermore,
                the document's markup must start with a painStart element and end with a painEnd
                element. There cannot be two painStart elements before a painEnd element, and the
                document cannot start with a painEnd element or end with a painStart element. So, we
                first marked up specific pain instances with the painStart and painEnd elements in
                each of our tragedies.</p>
            <p>Here is an example of how we used Trojan Markup (the attributes will be introduced
                later in this methodology section):</p>
            <p> &lt;painStart painType="both" rec="Philoctetes" recGen="man" inf="disease"
                direct="no" recNorm="no"/&gt;For my part, I pity him when I think how,with no one to
                care for him, and seeing no companion'sface, but suffering eternally alone, he is
                plagued by fierce disease and bewildered by each need as it arises.How, how does he
                endure his bitter fate?&lt;painEnd/&gt;</p>
            <h3>Determination of our attributes</h3>
            <p>During a meeting we had as a group, we determined and continued to refine the types
                of attributes that we thought would add specific layers of depth to our project. The
                attributes found in the painStart elements include information about the reciever
                and inflictor, the gender or non-human designation of people involved, the type of
                pain experienced, if the pain is direct or indirect.</p>
            <p>Each painStart element required certain groupings of attributes.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Sources</h2>
            <h3>Our Project</h3>
            <p><a class="link" href="https://github.com/vidyasurti/pain">Our GitHub
                repository</a></p>
            <h3>Our Tragedies</h3>
            <p><a class="link"
                    href="http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus:text:1999.01.0008"
                    >Libation Bearers</a></p>
            <p><a class="link"
                    href="http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus:text:1999.01.0114"
                    >Medea</a></p>
            <p><a class="link"
                    href="http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0194%3Acard%3D1"
                    >Philoctetes</a></p>
            <p><a class="link"
                    href="http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus:text:1999.01.0196"
                    >Women of Trachis</a></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
