<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Analysis</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page-style.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <h1>Analysis</h1>
        <hr/>
        <section>
            <h2>How did the distribution of pain type differ by gender?</h2>
            <!--#include virtual="painType_recGen.svg" -->
            <p>Looking at the numbers, there is a clear dichotomy of pain type by gender. The
                majority of women's pain experiences are of emotional pain, with instances of
                emotional pain comprising around 74% of all pain instances where a woman is
                receiving pain. On the other hand, the type of pain that men experienced was more
                evenly distributed between the three that we delineated, but they experienced
                physical pain most often, which is especially true given that our "both" category
                accounts for simultaneous experiences of physical and emotional pain.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>What about experiences of direct and indirect pain?</h2>
            <p>When looking at women recieved pain and when men inflicted it, 44% of the pain was directly inflicted. 
               Furthermore, with the same genders with indirect infliction, 55% of the  pain was indirectly inflicted. 
               Although the distribution was nearly equal, men tended to inflict pain indirectly more to woman than directly. 
               On the other hand, with a woman inflictor, 55% inflicted pain directly, while 44% inflicted pain indirectly. 
               So, women had a slight lean towards inflicting direct pain. 
            </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Who inflicted pain on who?</h2>
            <!--#include virtual="infGen_recGen.svg" -->
            <p>Interestingly enough, pain was usually inflicted upon
            the opposite gender, with women inflicting pain on men being 
            the most common occurrence. There does not seem to be much of 
            a trend for the mixed gender groups, although that is likely due to the fact
            that only a small proportion of pain instances involved them.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
