<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusion</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page-style.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <h1>Conclusion</h1>
        <hr />
        <section>
            <h2>Experiences of Pain by Gender</h2>
            <p>As discussed on the analysis page, there were clear associations between female pain
                receivers and emotional pain, and male pain receivers and physical pain. This shows
                us that the pain in these four Greek tragedies is indeed gendered, and gendered in
                the way that one would expect.</p>
            <p>We additionally marked up "direct" and "indirect" instances of pain, which was both a
                necessity and a way for us to add another layer to our analysis. We wondered if
                perhaps women would experience more indirect pain, since women are stereotypically
                thought to worry more about situations even when they have not directly been hurt.
                Our results did show a slight trend—women were slightly more likely to experience
                indirect pain than direct pain. On the other hand, male receivers of pain were
                almost evenly split between experiencing direct and indirect pain, but there were
                still 4 more instances of direct pain than indirect pain. This tells us that our
                hypothesis may have been correct, although we would need more data to draw a less
                tentative conclusion.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Dynamics Between Inflictors and Receivers of Pain</h2>
            <p>Our data shows that male receivers of pain were more likely to experience pain
                because of women, while female receivers of pain were more likely experience pain
                because of men. The former trend was particularly noticeable, and this is
                corroborated by the fact that the most common recRel attributes in our data were
                "husband" and "children," which correspond to the infRel attributes of "wife" and
                "mother."</p>
            <p>One reason for the prominence of this trend is that out of the four Greek tragedies
                we analyzed, Medea and Women of Trachis had the largest numbers of pain instances,
                and both plays feature a woman as one of the main characters—Medea in Medea, and
                Deianeira in Women of Trachis. There are several instances when Medea hurts her
                children, and a large part of the Women of Trachis storyline is about the
                consequences of Deianeira inadvertently causing harm to her husband Heracles. This
                aligns with the fact that women have often been portrayed in familial contexts in
                fiction, rather than situations outside of family and home.</p>
            <p>Our third most common recRel and infRel attribute values was "lover," which appeared
                together in 21 pain instances. 13 of these instances were men inflicting pain upon
                women, so we can see that the four Greek tragedies we analyzed, men also inflict
                pain to the people they are close to. However, the correlation is weaker, which
                reveals a dichotomy where male inflictors of pain are more likely to be in a wider
                variety of situations, while female inflictors of pain are more likely to appear in
                familial situations than others.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Gender, Pain Inflictors, and Norms</h2>
            <p>The most prominent trend in our data was the relationship between female inflictors
                of pain and Greek norms. There were 82 instances across the four tragedies where a
                female inflictor did not fit the norm, and only 2 instances where a female inflictor
                did fit the norm. In contrast, male inflictors of pain typically did fit Greek
                norms— there were 62 instances where a male inflictor fit the norm, and 12 instances
                where he did not. There were only 5 instances where the inflictor was a mixed gender
                group, and the split between fitting norms and not fitting norms was 2:3.</p>
            <p>The fact that female inflictors of pain overwhelmingly did not fit Greek norms while
                male inflictors of pain typically did shows us that it is much less acceptable for
                women to inflict pain than it is for men.</p>
            <p>However, we must note that the we didn't research ancient Greek culture extensively
                for this project to create a broad set of norms, so the data could be skewed due to
                a lack of standardization. For this project, we decided that who fit the norm and
                who didn't was more subjective based on the characters of the play. This
                subjectivity may be one reason for the big correlation between female inflictors and
                not fitting norms, as Deianeira was often marked as not fitting Greek norms for
                inadvertently hurting Heracles due to the active role she took, and the slight
                switch in gender roles between the two.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Limitations</h2>
            <p>We started our project a few weeks late because we had to switch topics, which meant
                that we lost some time that we could have had to refine our project and our project
                website. We did not standardize our infRel and recRel attributes, which is something
                that may have helped with collecting clearer data, and we did not check each other's
                markup for interpretive consistency across tragedies.</p>
            <p>Furthermore, the conclusions we have drawn are limited by the fact that our corpus
                only consisted of four Greek tragedies. Extending our analysis to more Greek
                tragedies would allow us to be more certain about the patterns that we have observed
                and whether they hold true for Greek tragedies in general.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Final Thoughts</h2>
            <p>We concluded that a lo</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
