<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml homepage-pain.css"
 xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/>
        <title>Gendered Pain in Greek Tragedy</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="homepage-pain.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Gendered Pain in Greek Tragedy</h1>
        <section>
            <h2>Research Questions and Theoretical Framework</h2>
            <p> Our research questions were central to our methods. Additionally, our research was
                guided by our understanding of patriarchy and sexism. We wanted to explore whether
                traditional tropes of sexism exhibited themselves through pain, specifically from
                the perspective of the original intended audience. By examining how pain is
                portrayed, inflicted, and experienced, we hope to understand how sexism operates in
                Greek tragedies. Our exploratory analysis and markup were guided by these research
                questions: </p>
            <ul>
                How do depictions of pain in Greek Tragedies differ between men and women?<br/>
                Are depictions of experiencing and inflicting pain in greek tragedies
                    distributed equally among men and women?
            </ul>
            <p> We are using a binary definition of gender, and we are looking at the greek
                tragedies we planned to analyze in a vacuum. In other words, we didn't look at these
                tragedies in context of the preceding plays. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <h2>Our Team</h2>
            <h3>About the Developers</h3>

            <p>Alexis, an English Writing major with a minor in Film Studies, is a sophomore at the
                University of Pittsburgh. She joined this class, with no prior knowledge of coding,
                to fulfill a Quantitative Reasoning requirement in her degree. While learning the
                skill of resilience in the academic realm, this course in Computational Humanities
                has challenged Alexis in new ways. In regards to our research, Alexis was excited to
                combine gender studies and Greek poetry, two topics she has focused on in the
                past.</p>

            <p>Cherina is a sophomore, double majoring in Biological Science and History and
                Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh. She joined this class to
                fulfill an honors credit, and because she is interested in the humanities. Because
                this course applies computational methods to the humanities she knew she would be
                able to apply the technical skills and knowledge gained in this course to future
                projects. Cherina found our research to be a great opportunity to analyze how pain
                relates to gender through one of her interests in humanities, which is literary
                analysis and interpretation.</p>

            <p>Richa, a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, is a double major in
                Computational Biology and Anthropology, while also pursuing a certificate in Global
                Health. She joined this class because she saw it as a unique opportunity to bring
                together seemingly distinct disciplines. While she has a background in CS, she has
                learned many new technologies in this course. Pertaining to our research, Richa has
                a distinct interest in perception and the embodiment of pain.</p>

            <p>Vidya is a sophmore at the University of Pittsburgh, double majoring in English and
                Anthropology. Vidya is also minoring in Chemistry. She joined this class to learn
                how to use different computer tools and languages to conduct research in the
                humanities. Vidya's favorite Greek tragedy is Medea, which was one of our main
                inspirations for our research topic. </p>

            <p>Caroline, a TA who helped guide us through every aspect of our project,  </p>
            
            <p>Charlie, a TA who also helped guide us though our project, is a double major in Art
                History and Classics with a minor in French. Charlie plans to get her Ph.D. in Art
                History. She wanted to become a TA for this class because she loves working with
                students and seeing all of the impressive project each semester. </p>
            
            
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
