<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Gendered Pain in Greek Tragedy</title>
        <link rel="Stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page-style.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <p><a href="index.xhtml" class="website-name">Tragic Pain</a></p>
        <p class="menu">
            <a href="index.xhtml" class="page-link">Home</a> | <a href="about.xhtml" class = "page-link">About</a> | <a
                href="texts.xhtml" class="page-link">Corpus</a> | <a href="analysis.xhtml" class = "page-link"
                    >Analysis</a> | <a href="conclusion.xhtml" class="page-link">Conclusion</a></p>
        <h1>Gendered Pain in Greek Tragedy</h1>
        <hr />
        <div>
            <section>
                <h2>Research Questions and Theoretical Framework</h2>
                <p> Our research questions were central to our methods. Additionally, our research
                    was guided by our understanding of patriarchy and sexism. We wanted to explore
                    whether traditional tropes of sexism exhibited themselves through pain,
                    specifically from the perspective of the original intended audience. By
                    examining how pain is portrayed, inflicted, and experienced, we hope to
                    understand how sexism operates in Greek tragedies. Our exploratory analysis and
                    markup were guided by these research questions: </p>
                <ul>
                    <li>How do depictions of pain in Greek Tragedies differ between men and
                        women?</li>
                    <li>Are depictions of experiencing and inflicting pain in greek tragedies
                        distributed equally among men and women?</li>
                </ul>
                <p> We are using a binary definition of gender, and we are looking at the greek
                    tragedies we planned to analyze in a vacuum. In other words, we didn't look at
                    these tragedies in context of the preceding plays. </p>
            </section>
            <section>
                <h2>Our Team</h2>
                <h3>About the Developers</h3>

                <p>Alexis, an English Writing major with a minor in Film Studies, is a sophomore at
                    the University of Pittsburgh. She joined this class, with no prior knowledge of
                    coding, to fulfill a Quantitative Reasoning requirement in her degree. While
                    learning the skill of resilience in the academic realm, this course in
                    Computational Humanities has challenged Alexis in new ways. In regards to our
                    research, Alexis was excited to combine gender studies and Greek poetry, two
                    topics she has focused on in the past.</p>

                <p>Cherina is a sophomore, double majoring in Biological Science and History and
                    Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh. She joined this class to
                    fulfill an honors credit, and because she is interested in the humanities.
                    Because this course applies computational methods to the humanities she knew she
                    would be able to apply the technical skills and knowledge gained in this course
                    to future projects. Cherina found our research to be a great opportunity to
                    analyze how pain relates to gender through one of her interests in humanities,
                    which is literary analysis and interpretation.</p>

                <p>Richa, a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, is a double major in
                    Computational Biology and Anthropology, while also pursuing a certificate in
                    Global Health. She joined this class because she saw it as a unique opportunity
                    to bring together seemingly distinct disciplines. While she has a background in
                    CS, she has learned many new technologies in this course. Pertaining to our
                    research, Richa has a distinct interest in perception and the embodiment of
                    pain.</p>

                <p>Vidya is a sophmore at the University of Pittsburgh, double majoring in English
                    and Anthropology. Vidya is also minoring in Chemistry. She joined this class to
                    learn how to use different computer tools and languages to conduct research in
                    the humanities. Vidya's favorite Greek tragedy is Medea, which was one of our
                    main inspirations for our research topic. </p>

                <p>Caroline Gish, a TA who helped guide us through every aspect of our project, is a
                    senior at the University of Pittsburgh. She is double majoring in Linguistics
                    and English Literature, with a Korean minor. She plans on continuing her
                    linguistics education at Georgetown University in their Computational
                    Linguistics MS program. Caroline became a TA for this course because she finds
                    it fulfilling to help students through the learning process and to show them
                    that anyone can code, all while strengthening her own knowledge of the
                    technologies.</p>

                <p>Charlie, a TA who also helped guide us though our project, is a junior at the
                    University of Pittsburgh. Charlie is a double major in Art History and Classics
                    with a minor in French. Charlie plans to get her Ph.D. in Art History. She
                    wanted to become a TA for this class because she loves working with students and
                    seeing all of the impressive projects each semester. </p>


            </section>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
