<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title></title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="reading-view.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h2 class="page-title">Events of Pain in Libation Bearers</h2>
      <section class="textDisplay">
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            now that I have come to this
            						land and returned from exile. On this mounded grave I cry out to my father
            						to hearken, to hear me
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I think my own sister Electra is
            						approaching, distinguished by her bitter grief
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            My cheek is marked with bloody gashes
            							where my nails have cut fresh furrows. And yet through all my life my
            							heart is fed with lamentation. Rips are torn by my griefs through the
            							linen web of my garment, torn in the cloth that covers my breast, the
            							cloth of robes struck for the sake of my mirthless
            							misfortunes.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            O mother Earth, she sends me forth,
            							godless woman that she is. But I am afraid to utter the words she
            							charged me to speak. For what atonement is there for blood fallen to
            							earth? Ah, hearth of utter grief! Ah, house laid low in ruin! Sunless
            							darkness, loathed by men, enshrouds our house due to the death of its
            							master.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            it is fitting for me to govern my bitter hate, even
            							against my will, and submit to the wishes of my masters, whether just or
            							unjust.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Shall I
            						say that I bring these offerings to a loved husband from a loving wife—from
            						my own mother? I do not have the assurance for that, nor do I know what I
            						should say as I pour this libation onto my father's tomb. Or shall I speak
            						the words that men are accustomed to use: “To those who send these honors
            						may he return benefits”—a gift, indeed, to match their evil?
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            For now we are bartered
            						away like vagrants by her who bore us
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            who in exchange got as her mate Aegisthus, who was her
            						accomplice in your murder
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Orestes is an outcast from his inheritance, while they
            						in their insolence revel openly in the winnings of your toil. But that
            						Orestes may come home with good fortune I pray to you, father: Oh, hearken
            						to me! And as for myself, grant that I may prove far more circumspect than
            						my mother and more reverent in deed.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Over my
            						heart, too, there sweeps a surge of bitterness, and I am struck as if a
            						sword had run me through
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Nor yet in truth did she clip it from her head, the
            						murderess, my own mother,who has assumed a godless spirit regarding her
            						children that ill accords with the name of mother
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Behold
            						the orphaned brood of a father eagle that perished in the meshes, in the
            						coils of a fierce viper. They are utterly orphaned, gripped by the famine of
            						hunger: for they are not grown to full strength to bring their father's
            						quarry to the nest. So you see both me and poor Electra here, children
            						bereft of their father, both outcasts alike from our home
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            my keen grief for my father, and also the pinch of
            						poverty—that my countrymen, the most renowned of mortals, who overthrew
            							
            						in the spirit of glory, should not be subjected so to a pair of
            						women
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            The
            							murdered man has his dirge; the guilty man is revealed.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            your two children mourn you in a dirge
            							over your tomb. As suppliants and exiles as well they have sought a
            							haven at your sepulchre. What of these things is good, what free of
            							evil? Is it not hopeless to wrestle against doom?
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            if only beneath
            								's walls you had been slain, slashed by some
            							Lycian spearman! Then you would have left a good name for your children
            							in their halls, and in their maturity you would have made their lives
            							admired by men. And in a land beyond the sea you would have found a tomb
            							heaped high with earth, no heavy burden for your house to
            							bear—
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I wish
            							rather that his murderers had been killed by their own loved ones, just
            							as they killed you
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            May it be mine to raise a hearty shout in triumph
            							over the man when he is stabbed and over the woman as she perishes!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Why should I try to keep hidden what nevertheless
            							hovers before my soul? Full against the prow of my heart wrath blows
            							sharply in rancorous hate.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            But
            							again my heart throbs as I hear this pitiful lament. At once I am devoid
            							of hope and my viscera are darkened at the words I hear.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            To what could we more fittingly appeal
            							than to those very miseries we have endured from the woman herself who
            							bore us?
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            till my battered and wretched head
            							resounded with the strokes.Away with you, cruel and utterly brazen mother!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            You dared to give your husband a most cruel burial:
            							unmourned, without lamentation, a king unattended by his
            							people.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Yet
            							with the help of the gods, and with the help of my own hands, will she
            							not atone for the dishonor she did my father?
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Let me only take her life, then let me
            							die!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            he was brutally mangled.
            							And even as she buried him in this way, she acted with intent to make
            							the manner of his death
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            But
            							all the while I was kept sequestered, despised, accounted a worthless
            							thing.Kennelled in my room as if I were a vicious cur, I gave free vent
            							to my streaming tears, which came more readily than laughter, as in my
            							concealment I poured out my lament in plentiful weeping
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            O father, who perished by a death unbefitting a
            						king
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Father, remember the bath where you were robbed of life.
            					 And remember how they devised a strange net to cast about you. You were caught,
            my father, in fetters forged by no smith's hand.And in a fabric shamefully devised.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            she was
            						shaken by dreams and wandering terrors of the night that she sent these
            						offerings
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            No: it drew in clotted blood with the milk.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I will skewer him with my swift sword
            						and lay him dead.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            she destroyed her own child by burning
            							the charred brand of the same age as he when, coming from his mother's
            							womb, he cried out, and it aged in pace with him through his lifeto the
            							day decreed by fate.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            it is the right time to tell of a marriage void of
            							love, an abomination to the house,and the plots devised by a wife's
            							cunning against her warrior lord, against her lord revered with reason
            							by his foes.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Miserable woman that I am! How the old unbearable troubles of every sort
            						that occurred in this house of Atreushave always made my heart ache within
            						my breast! But never yet have I endured a blow like this. For all the other
            						troubles I bore patiently, but my beloved Orestes, on whom I spent my soul,
            						whom I took from his mother at birth and nursed, and the many and
            						troublesome tasks, fruitless for all my enduring them, when his loud and
            						urgent cries broke my rest....
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            My master is slain! O woe! I cry yet
            						again, for the third time. Aegisthus is no more!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            My beloved, valiant Aegisthus! You are dead! You love this man? Then you will lie
            in the same grave, and you will never
            						abandon him in death.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I mean to kill you by his very side.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Murder my father and then make your home with
            						me?
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            You brought me to birth and yet you cast me out to
            						misery.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I was sold in disgrace, though I was born of a free
            						father.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            It
            						is a grief for women to be deprived of a husband, my child.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            You killed him whom you should not
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            so suffer what should not be.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            and I am freed from the
            							cruel curb that restrained our household
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Behold this pair, oppressors of the land, who murdered my
            						father and ransacked my house! They were majestic then, when they sat on
            						their thrones,and are lovers even now, as one may judge by what has happened
            						to them, and their oath holds true to their pledges. Together they vowed a
            						league of death against my unhappy father, and together they vowed to die,
            						and they have kept their promise well. But now regard again, you who hear this
            account of ills, the device for
            						binding my unhappy father, with which his hands were manacled, his feet
            						fettered. Spread it out! Stand around in a circle, and display this covering
            						for a man, that the Father may see—not mine, but he who surveys all this,
            						the Sun—that he may see the impious work of my own mother, that he may be my
            						witness in court that I justly pursued this death, my own mother's. For I do
            						not speak of Aegisthus' death: he has suffered the penalty prescribed for
            						adulterers.But she who devised this abhorrent deed against her husband, whose
            children
            						she bore, a burden under her belt, a burden once dear, but now a hateful
            						ill, as it seems: what do you think of her? Had she been born a seasnake or
            						a viper, I think her very touch without her bite would have caused anyone
            						else to rot,if shamelessness and an immoral disposition could do
            							so.What name shall I give it, however tactful I may be? A trap for a wild beast?
            						Or a shroud for a corpse in his bier, wrapped around his feet? No, rather it
            						is a net: you might call it a hunting net, or robes to entangle a man's
            						feet. This would be the kind of thing a highwayman might posses, who
            						deceives strangers and earns his living by robbery, and with this cunning
            						snare he might kill many men and warm his own heart greatly.May such a woman
            not live with me in my house! Before that may the gods grant
            						me to perish childless! Alas! Alas! Sorrowful work! You were done in by a wretched
            death. Alas!
            						Alas! And for the survivor also suffering blossoms. Did she do the deed or not?
            No, this is my witness, dyed by Aegisthus' sword.
            						This is a stain of blood that helps time to spoil the many tinctures of
            						embroidered fabric.Now at last I speak his praises. Now at last I am present
            to lament him, as I
            						address this web that wrought my father's death. Yet I grieve for the deed
            						and the punishment and for my whole clan. My victory is an unenviable
            						pollution.No mortal being shall pass his life unscathed, free from all suffering
            to the
            						end. Alas! Alas! One tribulation comes today, another tomorrow.But since I would
            have you know, for I do not know how it will end: I think I
            						am a charioteer driving my team far beyond the course. For my ungoverned
            						wits are whirling me away overmastered, and at my heart fear wishes to sing
            						and dance to a tune of wrath.But while I am still in my senses, I proclaim
            						to those who hold me dear and declare that not without justice did I slay my
            						mother, the unclean murderess of my father, and a thing loathed by the
            						gods.And for the spells that gave me the courage for this deed I count Loxias,
            the
            						prophet of ,my chief source. It was he who declared that, if I
            						did this thing, I would be acquitted of wrongdoing. But if I refrained—I
            						will not name the penalty; for no bowshot could reach such a height of
            						anguish.And now observe me, how armed with this branch and wreath I go as a
            						suppliant, an outcast for the shedding of kindred blood, to the temple set
            						square on the womb of the earth,the precinct of Loxias, and to the bright
            						fire said to be imperishable. To no other hearth did Loxias bid me turn. And
            						as to the manner in which this evil deed was wrought, I charge all men of
            							 in time to come to bear me witness.I go forth a
            						wanderer, estranged from this land, leaving this repute behind, in life or
            						death.And you have done well. Therefore do not yoke your tongue to an ill-omened
            						speech, nor let your lips give vent to evil forebodings,since you have freed
            						the whole realm of  by lopping off the heads of two serpents with a
            						fortunate stroke.Ah, ah! You handmaidens, look at them there: like Gorgons,
            wrapped in sable
            						garments, entwined with swarming snakes! I can stay no longer.What fantasies
            disturb you, dearest of sons to your father? Wait, do not be
            						all overcome by fear.To me these are no imagined troubles. For there indeed
            are the hounds of
            						wrath to avenge my mother.It is that the blood is still fresh on your hands;this
            is the cause of the
            						disorder that assails your wits.O lord Apollo, look! Now they come in troops,
            and from their eyes they drip
            						loathsome blood!There is one way to cleanse you: the touch of Loxias will set
            you free from
            						this affliction.You do not see them, but I see them. I am pursued. I can stay
            no
            							longer.Then may blessings go with you, and may the god watch benevolently over
            you
            						and guard you with favorable fortunes!Look! Now again, for the third time, has
            the tempest of this clan burst on
            						the royal house and run its course. </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            First, at the beginning, came the cruel
            						woes of children slain for food; next, the fate of a man, a king,when the
            						warlord of the Achaeans perished, murdered in his bath. And now, once again,
            						there has come from somewhere a third, a deliverer, or shall I say a doom?
            						Oh when will it finish its work, when will the fury of calamity, lulled to
            						rest, find an end and cease?
            </p>
         </section>
   </body>
</html>