<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title></title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="reading-view.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h2 class="page-title">Events of Pain in Philoctetes</h2>
      <section class="textDisplay">
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            his foot was all running
            						with a gnawing disease.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            How could he go far afield when his
            						foot is maimed by that old plague? 
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            For my part, I pity him when I think how,with no one to care for him, and seeing no
            companion's
            							face, but suffering eternally alone, he is plagued by fierce disease and
            							bewildered by each need as it arises.How, how does he endure his bitter fate?
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            That man—inferior in no way,
            							probably, to any man belonging to the oldest families—lies alone without
            							companions and stripped of all life's giftsamong the dappled or shaggy beasts.
            He is a man to be
            							pitied for his torments and his hunger alike, enduring anguish that has
            							no cure.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Instead those men, who against the gods'
            						laws cast me away, keep their secret and laugh, while my plague has ever
            						flourished and grows worse!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            
            						I am he whom the two marshalls and the Cephallenian kingshamelessly hurled to
            this solitude 
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I was wasting with a fierce disease, stricken by the savage
            						bite of the murderous serpent.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            what
            						stinging tears I wept, and what miseries I bewailed 
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            But there is one thing
            						that no one will do, whenever I mention it: take me home in safety. No, this
            						is already the tenth year that I am wasted by misery from hunger and
            						suffering, by feeding this gluttonous plague. This is what the Atreids and
            						the forceful Odysseus have done to me, boy.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I have been slowly schooled by necessity to endure misery.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
             powerless to walk, with no one in
            							the land to be his companion 
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            
            							for the plague that gnawed his flesh and drained his
            							blood—no one to lull with healing herbs gathered from the nourishing
            							earth the burning blood which oozed from the ulcers of hisenvenomed foot, whenever
            the torment
            							attacked him.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Ah,
            							joyless was his life, who for ten years never knew the delight of
            								wine,
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I am destroyed, boy—I can never conceal my suffering when you are close. Ah!
            						Ah! It shoots through me, shoots straight through! Oh, the pain,the
            							misery!I am destroyed, boy—I am
            						devoured!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Ah, me, oh, oh! Cursed foot,
            							what torment you cause me! It creeps on me, it is coming near! Ah, misery!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            This pain no longer lets me stand up.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            I am destroyed—ah, misery!—betrayed!
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            But now, because of my rotten fate, I
            						have been tricked.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            mocked by you and by the sons of
            						Atreus, the two generals whom you serve on this errand.
            </p>
         
         <p class="painEvent">
            Ayee, ayee! Doom, Doom! My suffering kills me! Foot, my foot, what shall
            							I do with you in the days to come?
            </p>
         </section>
   </body>
</html>